docs/quickstart/installation.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Installation'
icon: 'arrow-down-to-line'
---

This library can be installed from the
[npm registry](https://npm.im/express-rate-limit), or from
[github releases](https://github.com/express-rate-limit/express-rate-limit/releases).

<Tabs>

    <Tab title="npm">
    	<CodeGroup>

    		```sh npm
    		> npm install express-rate-limit
    		```

    	```sh yarn
    	> yarn add express-rate-limit
    	```

    	```sh pnpm
    	> pnpm add express-rate-limit
    	```

    </CodeGroup>
    </Tab>
    <Tab title="GitHub Releases">
    	<CodeGroup>
       	```sh npm
       	> export VERSION=7.1.1
       	> export URL="https://github.com/express-rate-limit/express-rate-limit/releases/download/v${VERSION}/express-rate-limit.tgz"
       	> npm install $URL
       	```

        ```sh yarn
        > export VERSION=7.1.1
        > export URL="https://github.com/express-rate-limit/express-rate-limit/releases/download/v${VERSION}/express-rate-limit.tgz"
        > yarn add $URL
        ```

        ```sh pnpm
        > export VERSION=7.1.1
        > export URL="https://github.com/express-rate-limit/express-rate-limit/releases/download/v${VERSION}/express-rate-limit.tgz"
        > pnpm add $URL
        ```
        </CodeGroup>
    </Tab>

</Tabs>

You can view the changes made in each version in the
[changelog](../reference/changelog).

Commit message:

feat(headers): implement ietf `draft-8` (#486)
* feat(headers): implement `draft-8` headers
* fix(headers): ensure `partitionKey` is a byte string
* fix(headers): `getDurationInWords` cannot return `undefined`
* feat(headers): add validation error for invalid ietf draft version in `standardHeaders`
* fix(headers): do not overwrite previous header for `draft-8`
* feat(headers): add `identifier` option to override quota policy name
* docs: add note about increased peer dep version (`express`)
* chore: bump express peer dependency version from 4 to 4.11
   - see https://github.com/express-rate-limit/express-rate-limit/pull/486#discussion_r1875974714
* fix(deps): allow `express` v4.11+
* fix(headers): only make days and hours plural when > 1
* docs(headers): add `draft-8` related documentation
* feat(headers): allow `identifier` to be a function
* docs: note that `identifier` can be a function too

docs/quickstart/installation.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Installation'
icon: 'arrow-down-to-line'
---

This library can be installed from the
[npm registry](https://npm.im/express-rate-limit), or from
[github releases](https://github.com/express-rate-limit/express-rate-limit/releases).

<Tabs>

    <Tab title="npm">
    	<CodeGroup>
       		```sh npm
       		> npm install express-rate-limit
       		```

        	```sh yarn
        	> yarn add express-rate-limit
        	```

        	```sh pnpm
        	> pnpm add express-rate-limit
        	```
    	</CodeGroup>
    </Tab>
    <Tab title="GitHub Releases">
    	<CodeGroup>
       	```sh npm
        > export VERSION=x.x.x
       	> export URL="https://github.com/express-rate-limit/express-rate-limit/releases/download/v${VERSION}/express-rate-limit.tgz"
       	> npm install $URL
       	```

        ```sh yarn
        > export VERSION=x.x.x
        > export URL="https://github.com/express-rate-limit/express-rate-limit/releases/download/v${VERSION}/express-rate-limit.tgz"
        > yarn add $URL
        ```

        ```sh pnpm
        > export VERSION=x.x.x
        > export URL="https://github.com/express-rate-limit/express-rate-limit/releases/download/v${VERSION}/express-rate-limit.tgz"
        > pnpm add $URL
        ```
        </CodeGroup>
    </Tab>

</Tabs>

<Note>

From `v7.4.0` onwards, the minimum supported version of Express is `v4.11`, due
to the usage of `response.append` in the implementation of the IETF draft
specification for the `RateLimit` headers. If you do not set the
`standardHeaders` option to `draft-7` or `draft-8`, you can still safely use any
version of Express, `v4.0.0` onwards.

</Note>

You can view the changes made in each version in the
[changelog](../reference/changelog).
