docs/guides/contributing.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Contributing'
icon: 'handshake'
---

Thanks for your interest in contributing to Express Rate Limit! This guide will
show you how to set up your environment and contribute to this library.

<Steps>
<Step title="Setup your environment">

First, you need to install and be familiar the following:

1. `git`

[Here](https://github.com/git-guides) is a great guide by GitHub on installing
and getting started with Git.

2. `node` and `npm`

[This guide](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/) will help you
install `node` and `npm`. The recommended method is using the `n` version
manager if you are on MacOS or Linux. Make sure you are using the
[active LTS version](https://github.com/nodejs/Release#release-schedule) of
Node.

</Step>
<Step title="Fork the repository">

Follow
[these instructions](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo)
to
[fork](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks)
and [clone](https://github.com/git-guides/git-clone) the repository
(`express-rate-limit/express-rate-limit`).

Once you have forked and cloned the repository, you can
[pick out an issue](https://github.com/express-rate-limit/express-rate-limit/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-desc)
you want to fix/implement!

</Step>
<Step title="Create a branch">

Once you have cloned the repository to your computer (say, in
`~/Code/express-rate-limit`) and picked the issue you want to tackle, create a
branch based off the `main` branch:

```sh terminal
> git switch main
> git switch --create branch-name
```

While naming your branch, make sure the name is short and self explanatory.

Once you have created a branch, you can start coding!

</Step>
<Step title="Writing code">

The library is written in `typescript` and supports `node` versions 16, 18
and 20. The code is arranged as follows:

<Accordion title="Code Structure">

```sh
express-rate-limit/
├── config/
│  └── husky/
│     └── pre-commit # runs the linter on staged files
├── docs/
│  └── * # documentation & changelog
├── source/
│  ├── headers.ts # header parsing functions
│  ├── index.ts # exports the types and the middleware
│  ├── lib.ts # option parser and the rate limiting middleware
│  ├── memory-store.ts # the used-by-default memory store
│  ├── types.ts # typescript type definitions, exported as public api
│  └── validations.ts # validation checks built into library
├── test/
│  ├── external/
│  │  ├── imports/ # ensures the function can be imported in diff envs
│  │  ├── stores/ # ensures the library works with the store
│  │  └── run-all-tests # runs all the external and store tests
│  └── library
│     ├── helpers
│     │  └── create-server.ts # creates a test express server
│     └── *-test.ts # tests for each file in the `source/` folder
├── license.md # license info
├── package-lock.json # npm lock file, do not modify manually
├── package.json # node package info
├── readme.md # project info
├── jest.config.json # test runner config
└── tsconfig.json # typescript config
```

</Accordion>

<Note> Most files have a little description of what they do at the top. </Note>

</Step>
<Step title="Documentation and testing">

When adding a new feature or fixing a bug, please update the documentation and
changelog as well as add tests for the same. Also make sure the codebase passes
the linter and library tests by running `npm test`. Note that running
`npm run format` will automatically resolve most style/lint issues.

<Note>

Note that the external tests require various datastores to be installed locally
and take more time to execute. Typically they are run only on GitHub Actions.
You may run these tests locally by running `npm run test:ext`.

</Note>

</Step>
<Step title="Making a commit">

Once you have made changes to the code, you will want to
[commit](https://github.com/git-guides/git-commit) (basically, Git's version of
save) the changes. To commit the changes you have made locally:

```sh terminal
> git add this/folder that-file.js
> git commit --message 'commit-message'
```

While writing the `commit-message`, try to follow the below guidelines:

1. Prefix the message with `type:`, where `type` is one of the following
   dependending on what the commit does:
   - `fix`: Introduces a bug fix.
   - `feat`: Adds a new feature.
   - `test`: Any change related to tests.
   - `perf`: Any performance related change.
   - `meta`: Any change related to the build process, workflows, issue
     templates, etc.
   - `refc`: Any refactoring work.
   - `docs`: Any documentation related changes.
2. Keep the first line brief, and less than 60 characters.
3. Try describing the change in detail in a new paragraph (double newline after
   the first line).

When you commit files, `husky` and `lint-staged` will automatically lint the
code and fix most issues. In case an error is not automatically fixable, they
will cancel the commit. Please fix the errors before committing the changes. If
you still wish to commit the changes, prefix the `git commit` command with
`HUSKY=0`, like so:

```sh terminal
> HUSKY=0 git commit --message 'commit-message'
```

</Step>
<Step title="Pushing your changes">

Once you have committed your changes, you will want to
[push](https://github.com/git-guides/git-push) your commits (basically, publish
your changes to GitHub). To do so, run:

```sh terminal
> git push origin branch-name
```

If there are changes made to the `main` branch of the
`express-rate-limit/express-rate-limit` repository, you may wish to merge those
changes into your branch. To do so, run:

```sh terminal
> git fetch upstream main
> git merge upstream/main
```

This will automatically add the changes from `main` branch of the
`express-rate-limit/express-rate-limit` repository to the current branch. If you
encounter any merge conflicts, follow
[this guide](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/addressing-merge-conflicts/resolving-a-merge-conflict-using-the-command-line)
to resolve them.

</Step>
<Step title="Opening a pull request">

Once you have pushed your changes to your fork, follow
[these instructions](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request-from-a-fork)
to open a
[pull request](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/about-pull-requests).

</Step>
</Steps>

Once you have submitted a pull request, the maintainers of the repository will
review your pull requests. Whenever a maintainer reviews a pull request they may
request changes. These may be small, such as fixing a typo, or may involve
substantive changes. Such requests are intended to be helpful, but at times may
come across as abrupt or unhelpful, especially if they do not include concrete
suggestions on how to change them. Try not to be discouraged. If you feel that a
review is unfair, say so or seek the input of another project contributor. Often
such comments are the result of a reviewer having taken insufficient time to
review and are not ill-intended. Such difficulties can often be resolved with a
bit of patience. That said, reviewers should be expected to provide helpful
feedback.

In order to land, a pull request needs to be reviewed and approved by at least
one maintainer and pass CI. After that, if there are no objections from other
contributors, the pull request can be merged.

**Congratulations and thanks for your contribution!**

> This contributing guide was inspired by the Electron project's contributing
> guide.

Commit message:

Update contributing guide with pnpm Called out installing with pnpm and made a couple of other tweaks
Relates to https://github.com/express-rate-limit/express-rate-limit/issues/516

docs/guides/contributing.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Contributing'
icon: 'handshake'
---

Thanks for your interest in contributing to Express Rate Limit! This guide will
show you how to set up your environment and contribute to this library.

<Steps>
<Step title="Setup your environment">

First, you need to install and be familiar the following:

1. `git`

[Here](https://github.com/git-guides) is a great guide by GitHub on installing
and getting started with Git.

2. `node` and `pnpm`

[This guide](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/) will help you
install `node` and `npm`. The recommended method is using the `n` version
manager if you are on MacOS or Linux. Make sure you are using the
[active LTS version](https://github.com/nodejs/Release#release-schedule) of
Node.

Once node and npm are installed, run `npm install -g pnpm` to install [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/).

</Step>
<Step title="Fork the repository">

Follow
[these instructions](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo)
to
[fork](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks)
and [clone](https://github.com/git-guides/git-clone) the repository
(`express-rate-limit/express-rate-limit`).

Once you have forked and cloned the repository, you can
[pick out an issue](https://github.com/express-rate-limit/express-rate-limit/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-desc)
you want to fix/implement!

</Step>
<Step title="Install the dependencies">

Run `pnpm install --frozen-lockfile` to install the JavaScript dependencies.

If there are errors, try deleting the `node_modules` folder first, then re-run the install command.

</Step>
<Step title="Create a branch">

Once you have cloned the repository to your computer (say, in
`~/Code/express-rate-limit`) and picked the issue you want to tackle, create a
branch based off the `main` branch:

```sh terminal
> git switch main
> git switch --create branch-name
```

While naming your branch, make sure the name is short and self explanatory.

Once you have created a branch, you can start coding!

</Step>
<Step title="Writing code">

The library is written in `typescript` and supports `node` versions 16, 18
and 20. The code is arranged as follows:

<Accordion title="Code Structure">

```sh
express-rate-limit/
├── config/
│  └── husky/
│     └── pre-commit # runs the linter on staged files
├── docs/
│  └── * # documentation & changelog
├── source/
│  ├── headers.ts # header parsing functions
│  ├── index.ts # exports the types and the middleware
|  ├── ip-key-generator.ts # helper function for IPv6
│  ├── rate-limit.ts # option parser and the rate limiting middleware
│  ├── memory-store.ts # the used-by-default memory store
│  ├── types.ts # typescript type definitions, exported as public api
│  ├── utils.ts # utility functions that don't belong elsewhere
│  └── validations.ts # validation checks built into library
├── test/
│  ├── external/
│  │  ├── imports/ # ensures the function can be imported in diff envs
│  │  ├── stores/ # ensures the library works with the store
│  │  └── run-all-tests # runs all the external and store tests
│  └── library
│     ├── helpers
│     │  └── create-server.ts # creates a test express server
│     └── *-test.ts # tests for each file in the `source/` folder
├── license.md # license info
├── pnpm-lock.yml # pnpm lock file, do not modify manually
├── package.json # node package info
├── readme.md # project info
├── jest.config.json # test runner config
└── tsconfig.json # typescript config
└── ... # misclaneous other configuration files
```

</Accordion>

<Note> Most files have a little description of what they do at the top. </Note>

</Step>
<Step title="Documentation and testing">

When adding a new feature or fixing a bug, please update the documentation and
changelog as well as add tests for the same. Also make sure the codebase passes
the linter and library tests by running `npm test`. Note that running
`npm run format` will automatically resolve most style/lint issues.

<Note>

Note that the external tests require various datastores to be installed locally
and take more time to execute. Typically they are run only on GitHub Actions.
You may run these tests locally by running `npm run test:ext`.

</Note>

</Step>
<Step title="Making a commit">

Once you have made changes to the code, you will want to
[commit](https://github.com/git-guides/git-commit) (basically, Git's version of
save) the changes. To commit the changes you have made locally:

```sh terminal
> git add this/folder that-file.js
> git commit --message 'commit-message'
```

While writing the `commit-message`, try to follow the below guidelines:

1. Prefix the message with `type:`, where `type` is one of the following
   depending on what the commit does:
   - `fix`: Introduces a bug fix.
   - `feat`: Adds a new feature.
   - `test`: Any change related to tests.
   - `perf`: Any performance related change.
   - `meta`: Any change related to the build process, workflows, issue
     templates, etc.
   - `refc`: Any refactoring work.
   - `docs`: Any documentation related changes.
2. Keep the first line brief, and less than 60 characters.
3. Try describing the change in detail in a new paragraph (double newline after
   the first line).

When you commit files, `husky` and `lint-staged` will automatically lint the
code and fix most issues. In case an error is not automatically fixable, they
will cancel the commit. Please fix the errors before committing the changes. If
you still wish to commit the changes, prefix the `git commit` command with
`HUSKY=0`, like so:

```sh terminal
> HUSKY=0 git commit --message 'commit-message'
```

</Step>
<Step title="Pushing your changes">

Once you have committed your changes, you will want to
[push](https://github.com/git-guides/git-push) your commits (basically, publish
your changes to GitHub). To do so, run:

```sh terminal
> git push origin branch-name
```

If there are changes made to the `main` branch of the
`express-rate-limit/express-rate-limit` repository, you may wish to merge those
changes into your branch. To do so, run:

```sh terminal
> git fetch upstream main
> git merge upstream/main
```

This will automatically add the changes from `main` branch of the
`express-rate-limit/express-rate-limit` repository to the current branch. If you
encounter any merge conflicts, follow
[this guide](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/addressing-merge-conflicts/resolving-a-merge-conflict-using-the-command-line)
to resolve them.

</Step>
<Step title="Opening a pull request">

Once you have pushed your changes to your fork, follow
[these instructions](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request-from-a-fork)
to open a
[pull request](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/about-pull-requests).

</Step>
</Steps>

Once you have submitted a pull request, the maintainers of the repository will
review your pull requests. Whenever a maintainer reviews a pull request they may
request changes. These may be small, such as fixing a typo, or may involve
substantive changes. Such requests are intended to be helpful, but at times may
come across as abrupt or unhelpful, especially if they do not include concrete
suggestions on how to change them. Try not to be discouraged. If you feel that a
review is unfair, say so or seek the input of another project contributor. Often
such comments are the result of a reviewer having taken insufficient time to
review and are not ill-intended. Such difficulties can often be resolved with a
bit of patience. That said, reviewers should be expected to provide helpful
feedback.

In order to land, a pull request needs to be reviewed and approved by at least
one maintainer and pass CI. After that, if there are no objections from other
contributors, the pull request can be merged.

**Congratulations and thanks for your contribution!**

> This contributing guide was inspired by the Electron project's contributing
> guide.
